Clarify the rules.mk setup for Unicode (#6286)
qmk/qmk_firmware: docs/feature_unicode.md

# Unicode Support

Unicode characters can be input straight from your keyboard! There are some limitations, however.

> There are three different methods available in QMK:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QMK has three different methods for enabling Unicode input and defining keycodes:
```
Thoughts on this? I think it may be worth stating what these _methods_ are for, since there are also input modes further down the page.

I think it'd be worth having a `## Methods` section (and `### Basic Unicode`, `### Unicode Map`, `### UCIS` within it) along with the existing `## Input Modes` section, since the two classifications are orthogonal.

Author: Yeah I think the structure of this page needs a little more focus. but I'll hold off on that for now to avoid scope creep.

Reviewer: Sounds good. @ me when you make that PR :)

## Basic Unicode

> This method supports Unicode codepoints up to `0x7FFF`. This covers characters for most modern languages, as well as symbols, but it doesn't cover emoji.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method supports Unicode code points up to `0x7FFF`. This covers characters for most modern languages, as well as symbols, but it doesn't cover emoji.
```
“Code point” is usually two words. It's the preferred spelling in the Unicode standard.

Author: Could have sworn it was the other way around...

Add the following to your `rules.mk`:

```make
UNICODE_ENABLE = yes
```

> Then add your `UC(c)` keycodes to your keymap, where _c_ is the codepoint (preferably in hexadecimal, up to 4 digits long). For example: `UC(0x45B)`, `UC(0x30C4)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then add your `UC(c)` keycodes to your keymap, where _c_ is the code point (preferably in hexadecimal, up to 4 digits long). For example: `UC(0x45B)`, `UC(0x30C4)`.
```

> Then add your `UC(c)` keycodes to your keymap, where _c_ is the code point (preferably in hexadecimal, up to 4 digits long). For example: `UC(0x45B)`, `UC(0x30C4)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then add `UC(c)` keycodes to your keymap, where _c_ is the code point (preferably in hexadecimal, up to 4 digits long). For example: `UC(0x45B)`, `UC(0x30C4)`.
```
Reduce repetition of “your”.

## Unicode Map

> This method supports all possible codepoints (up to `0x10FFFF`), however, you need to maintain a separate mapping table in your keymap file, which may contain at most 16384 entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method supports all possible code points (up to `0x10FFFF`), however, you need to maintain a separate mapping table in your keymap file, which may contain at most 16384 entries.
```

> This method supports all possible code points (up to `0x10FFFF`), however, you need to maintain a separate mapping table in your keymap file, which may contain at most 16384 entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method supports all possible code points (up to `0x10FFFF`); however, you need to maintain a separate mapping table in your keymap file. The table may contain at most 16384 entries.
```
I'd keep the max entries sentence separate.

Author: I changed this sentence because I felt that "This method supports all possible code points" might at first suggest you can map every single one of them. Thus the "however" is clarifying that you must use the mapping table *and* that it is limited in size.

Reviewer: Oh, that makes sense. Alright, just change to a semicolon then. 😄
```suggestion
This method supports all possible code points (up to `0x10FFFF`); however, you need to maintain a separate mapping table in your keymap file, which may contain at most 16384 entries.
```

Add the following to your `rules.mk`:

```make
UNICODEMAP_ENABLE = yes
```

Then add `X(i)` keycodes to your keymap, where _i_ is an array index into the mapping table:

```c
enum unicode_names {
    BANG,
    IRONY,
    SNEK
};

const uint32_t PROGMEM unicode_map[] = {
    [BANG]  = 0x203D,  // ‽
    [IRONY] = 0x2E2E,  // ⸮
    [SNEK]  = 0x1F40D, // 🐍
};
```

> For example: `X(BANG)`, `X(SNEK)` etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can use `X(BANG)`, `X(SNEK)` etc. in your keymap.
```
I'd maybe keep the original sentence as it makes it clear that you're supposed to put these keycodes into your keymap. It's mentioned in the sentence above, but it's separated from this one by a large block of code, so doing this might help prevent confusion.

This is most useful when creating a keymap for an international layout with special characters. Instead of having to put the lower and upper case versions of a character on separate keys, you can have them both on the same key by using `XP()`. This helps blend Unicode keys in with regular alphas.

Due to keycode size constraints, _i_ and _j_ can each only refer to one of the first 128 characters in your `unicode_map`. In other words, 0 ≤ _i_ ≤ 127 and 0 ≤ _j_ ≤ 127. This is enough for most use cases, but if you'd like to customize the index calculation, you can override the [`unicodemap_index()`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/blob/71f640d47ee12c862c798e1f56392853c7b1c1a8/quantum/process_keycode/process_unicodemap.c#L40) function. This also allows you to, say, check Ctrl instead of Shift/Caps.

## UCIS

> This method also supports all codepoints. As with the Unicode Map method, you need to maintain a mapping table in your keymap file. However, there are no built-in keycodes for this feature — you have to create a custom keycode or function that invokes this functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method also supports all possible code points. As with the Unicode Map method, you need to maintain a mapping table in your keymap file. However, there are no built-in keycodes for this feature — you have to create a custom keycode or function that invokes this functionality.
```
